feat: add docs for experimental sessions auto-config (#10915)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions.mdx

<p>

> **Type:** `boolean`<br />

Reviewer: Just noting, maybe for @ArmandPhilippot that although `experimental.sessions` was introduced in 5.1, it was a config object and not a boolean at that time. Only in 5.3 is it now a boolean.

For an experimental feature I'm *less* concerned about the distinction, but if you have something off the top of your head that perfectly captures this, I'm listening! 😄

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately I have no idea... When I wrote this down I was hoping we had a similar case before so we would know how to handle this. :sweat_smile:

Updating `Since` here may cause more confusion than anything else... So, since this is experimental, I think we can afford to leave `5.1`...

If we really want to note this change, perhaps it would make more sense in [Enabling experimental sessions](https://deploy-preview-10915--astro-docs-2.netlify.app/en/reference/experimental-flags/sessions/#enabling-experimental-sessions). Something like:
``Before 5.3, you had to define an object with a driver to enable sessions. Now, you need to set the experimental.session flag to `true`.``
But starting with what we had before does not sound like a good idea. And it doesn't seem to fit properly between the code snippet and the last paragraph. So I guess we can omit this info.

Reviewer: Yeah, exactly. You're spot on. I was looking to see whether you had a rabbit to pull out of your hat, but otherwise, I wouldn't go out of my way to mention it. EXPERIMENTAL! EXPERIMENTAL! 😄

```js title="astro.config.mjs" {3}
  {
    session: {
      ttl: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
    }
  }
```

:::note
Setting a value for `ttl` does not delete the value from storage unless it is accessed after the time has passed. In that case it will be treated as if it does not exist and the value will be deleted. 

Individual drivers may also support a `ttl` option that will automatically delete sessions after the specified time. See the driver documentation for more information.
:::

## Using sessions

Once you have configured a driver, you can use the `session` object to interact with the session. The object is accessible as `Astro.session` in your Astro components and pages and on the `context` object in API endpoints, middleware and actions. The API is the same in all cases. 

The session is generated automatically when it is first used and can be regenerated at any time with [`Astro.session.regenerate()`](#sessionregenerate) or destroyed with [`Astro.session.destroy()`](#sessiondestroy).

> In most cases you will only need to use [`Astro.session.get()`](#sessionget) and [`Astro.session.set()`](#sessionset). For other available methods, see the [API section](#sessions-api).

Reviewer 3: not from this PR, but it doesn't hurt to fix this comma as well.
```suggestion
In most cases, you will only need to use [`Astro.session.get()`](#sessionget) and [`Astro.session.set()`](#sessionset). For other available methods, see the [API section](#sessions-api).
```

:::note
Some drivers may need extra packages to be installed. For example, Upstash requires the `@upstash/redis` package. Some drivers may also require environment variables or credentials to be set.

<ReadMore>
  See [the unstorage driver docs](https://unstorage.unjs.io/drivers) for more information.
</ReadMore>

:::

Set the driver name in the `session.driver` property. You can find the driver name in the unstorage documentation for the driver you want to use.

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={4}
  {
    adapter: vercel(),
    session: {
      driver: "upstash",
    },
    experimental: {
      session: true,
    },
  }
```

> ### Driver options

Reviewer 2: If I understand correctly, `Driver options` are options available for the chosen driver. So it may vary according to the user choice.
We could use `session.options` to be consistent or just "Options", but the user might think these are options for the sessions when they are the driver options (so tied to the configured driver).

You can also pass any available options to the unstorage driver in a separate `session.options` object. See the driver documentation for available options. For example, to set the base key for sessions in Upstash:

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={5-7}
  {
    adapter: vercel(),
    session: {
      driver: "upstash",
      options: {
        base: "sessions",
      },
    },
    experimental: {
      session: true,
    },
  }
```

> ### Other session options

Reviewer 2: I think it was to make the distinction between the static options defined by Astro and the options offered by the configured driver. But, yes, perhaps the heading is not necessary. I don't have a strong opinion on this.

You can configure additional options for sessions in the `session` object. 

#### `session.cookie`

<p>

**Type:** `string` | `object`<br />
**Default:** `astro-session`<br />

</p>

> Configures the session cookie. This cookie is set in the response when a session is generated. No actual user data is stored in the cookie – just an ID that is used to identify a user's session. The `session.cookie` option can be used to set options for this cookie. You can either provide a `string`, which will be used as the cookie name, or an object which allows additional options: 

Reviewer: This feels more convoluted than what was at the old "cookies" entry. (Although, I do like the first sentence as a descriptor of the option!) Just checking that this is an intentional change that you don't like what already existed, which I think felt clearer?

Author: The reason I changed it was because previously this was in a separate section about cookies, but I removed that because I was moving the docs for the option into a section with other options, and once that was gone the cookies section didn't make much sense to remain. I then pulled in part of the wording from the deleted section.

```js title="astro.config.mjs" {4} ins={6-9}
  {
    session: {
      // If set to a string, this will be used as the cookie name
      // cookie: "my-session-id",
      // If set to an object, this will allow advanced options to be set
      cookie: {
        name: "my-session-id"
        sameSite: "Strict",
      },
    }
  }
```

#### `session.ttl`

<p>
  
**Type:** `number`<br />
**Default:** `undefined`<br />

> 

Reviewer: We should have a `<Since />` here, probably?

Reviewer 2: `session.ttl` was already available in `5.1` (or at least before 5.3, I haven't checked the history) but not documented. So, I think we don't need a `Since` here since it was introduced with the feature?

Reviewer: Huh, the docs for it are new. Does this mean it existed but was never documented? If so, oops, but carry on!

Reviewer 2: Yes, Matt added it after my initial review:
> It wasn't documented before, but looking at your PR I saw the [ttl option](https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/3ddeaf0d3d7feeb59705f82e978981f1e7726356/packages/astro/src/core/config/schema.ts#L548) in addition to driver, options and cookies. Should we document this as well?

</p>

> An optional default time-to-live for session values, in seconds. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An optional default time-to-live expiration period for session values, in seconds.
```
Adjust the wording if that's not exactly right, but the definition of a value should ideally be more than a restatement of its name. (ttl = ttl.) So, throwing the notion of an "expiration period" up there instead!

> By default, session values persist until they are deleted or the session is destroyed. If you would prefer the values to expire after a certain period, you can set a `ttl` option. You can set this global default `session.ttl` option, or you can pass a `ttl` option to [`session.set()`](#sessionset). A value passed to `session.set()` will override the global default for that entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, session values persist until they are deleted or the session is destroyed, and do not automatically expire because a particular amount of time has passed. Set `session.ttl` to add a default expiration period for your session values. Passing a `ttl` option to [`session.set()`](#sessionset) will override the global default for that individual entry.
```
Just trying to tighten up and make a bit more direct. Check for accuracy/nuance and adjust as desired!

```js title="astro.config.mjs" {3}
  {
    session: {
      ttl: 60 * 60, // 1 hour
    }
  }
```

:::note

> Setting a value for `ttl` does not delete the value from storage unless it is accessed after the time has passed. In that case, it will be treated as if it does not exist and the value will be deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting a value for `ttl` does not automatically delete the value from storage after the time limit has passed.

Values from storage will only be deleted when there is an attempt to access them after the `ttl` period has expired. At this time, the session value will be undefined and only then will the value be deleted. 
```
Just trying to make this a bit more explicit. (Accuracy, nuance, etc...)

> Individual drivers may also support a `ttl` option that will automatically delete sessions after the specified time. See the driver documentation for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Individual drivers may also support a `ttl` option that will automatically delete sessions after the specified time. See your chosen driver's documentation for more information.
```

## Enabling experimental sessions

> To enable sessions, set the `experimental.session` flag to `true`. Sessions only work on pages with on-demand rendering, so you need to [install an adapter](/en/reference/config/#adapter) that supports on-demand rendering, and ensure that any pages that use sessions are set to `prerender: false`, or `output` is set to `server` in the Astro config.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if you wanted to link to the [Configuration reference](https://deploy-preview-10915--astro-docs-2.netlify.app/en/reference/configuration-reference/#adapter) or the [On-demand rendering guide](https://deploy-preview-10915--astro-docs-2.netlify.app/en/guides/on-demand-rendering/#add-an-adapter), but this should fix the links issues:
```suggestion
To enable sessions, set the `experimental.session` flag to `true`. Sessions only work on pages with on-demand rendering, so you need to [install an adapter](/en/guides/on-demand-rendering/#add-an-adapter) that supports on-demand rendering, and ensure that any pages that use sessions are set to `prerender: false`, or `output` is set to `server` in the Astro config.
```
(I chose the guide link because it was the link we had before, but feel free to update)
